# The Legend
Our story starts in the late eighties. Two young adults find each other, make some choices, and start a family. I am the second born of five sons.

My family life was very unstable. My parents gave up on adulthood when I was 14 years old. The stress of economic pressure, the growing older, the growing apart. A struggle with substance abuse that many from that generation went through. Five boys had to find their way in the world.

I stayed home from school often. My poor attendance made keeping up difficult, so I would often skip school and go to the public library instead. When our water was shut off at home, I would bathe myself in the sinks there. The library was clean and quiet: two things I desperately craved. I read about electrical engineering, and I studied Applied Algebra. My best subjects at school were lunch and Art because those were the only things that i attended. I had a 0.7 GPA, but I passed all the state assessments. My teachers asked me what was going on, but I couldn't ever be honest with them. I carried a lot of shame.

When my brothers were out with their friends, I sat in our hovel: tinkering with the computer, and playing my games. I sat in the grass of our overgrown back yard during hot summer nights: staring at the stars and dreaming of a better life. I had visions in that yard which inspired me to do more. I started to think about how I could get out. I decided that I was going to be an astronaut.

My first thought was to join the military. One way to become an astronaut is to join the Air Force. My parents met each other in the Army, so it made sense that I could join too. I was almost 16, and I knew I could pass a GED test. If I got good ASVAB scores they might overlook my poor academic performance, and I could probably be enlisted at 17. I got a sports physical, and my military ambitions came to an end. My feet are totally flat, so I wasn't fit to server in any branch of the military.

Next, I found Job Corps. Job Corps had a course in pre-apprentice electrician. I was sure that I could do well in that sort of program. I was fascinated by electrical circuits. Job Corps provides training on a tuition-free basis, room and board included. I set up an appointment with an admissions counselor, and I had my parents sign me up.

I took a Greyhound from Seattle to Sedro-Woolley on May 23, 2005 that would change my life forever. Job Corps wasn't what I thought it would be. Being dropped into an alien environment, I realized that my deficits were deeper than I was aware. I had very real anxiety about all social interaction. I struggled to understand my peers. I nearly quit.

Back at home, things got worse. Dad went to jail. Mom got evicted. Going back home wasn't really an option anymore. I was going to need to "pull myself up by my bootstraps." I listened to the encouragement of the staff, I focused on my training, and I kept looking forward. I didn't fret about where I was heading because I knew it could only get better. Someone suggested that I could be a teacher, so I signed up for college classes. Two years later, I was in a teacher education program. I majored in Elementary Mathematics, so I could teacher Elementary School or High School Math.

My student teaching experience was challenging. I felt like I was in too deep, but I didn't know how to quit. I was engaged, and we had a baby on the way. I finished up my training, and I went to work as a Substitute Teacher as I looked for full-time work. I spent about 6 months substitute teaching, across two academic years. I had several interviews, across multiple counties. I made a point of asking the Principals for advice when they called to give me the bad news, and they were always very encouraging,"You interviewed great! We just had so many great candidates. Keep trying!" 

I heard that Job Corps was hiring substitute teachers, so I turned in an application. After interviewing with Job Corps, they took me on as a substitute. When I started training, I met the Academic Manager; he had recently been promoted, and he was formerly a Math instructor. A full-time Math Instructor position had just been posted, and he suggested that I might be a good fit for the role. The academic manager offered me a two week job in which I would be covering his Math schedule. I did my best to adopt his system, connect with the students, and demonstrate my skills at teaching. I was interviewed for the full-time job, and they offered me the position. Two years later, we bought a home.

All throughout the years, I had tinkered with computers. Even as a broke Job Corps kid, I had a laptop. Over time, I developed an interest in Computer Programming, 3D modeling, and animation. As my financial resources developed, my interest in computers deepened.
